Blog on W2V2-BERT finetuning (#1752)
huggingface/blog: fine-tune-w2v2-bert.md

vocab_test = common_voice_test.map(extract_all_chars, batched=True, batch_size=-1, keep_in_memory=True, remove_columns=common_voice_test.column_names)
```

Now, we create the union of all distinct letters in the training dataset and test dataset and convert the resulting list into an enumerated dictionary.

```python
vocab_list = list(set(vocab_train["vocab"][0]) | set(vocab_test["vocab"][0]))

vocab_dict = {v: k for k, v in enumerate(sorted(vocab_list))}
vocab_dict
```

```bash
{' ': 0,
 'a': 1,
 'b': 2,
 'c': 3,
 'd': 4,
 'e': 5,
 'g': 6,
 'h': 7,
 'i': 8,
 'l': 9,
 'n': 10,
 'o': 11,
 'r': 12,
 't': 13,
 'x': 14,
 'а': 15,
 'б': 16,
 'в': 17,
 'г': 18,
 'д': 19,
 'е': 20,
 'ж': 21,
 'з': 22,
 'и': 23,
 'й': 24,
 'к': 25,
 'л': 26,
 'м': 27,
 'н': 28,
 'о': 29,
 'п': 30,
 'р': 31,
 'с': 32,
 'т': 33,
 'у': 34,
 'ф': 35,
 'х': 36,
 'ц': 37,
 'ч': 38,
 'ш': 39,
 'ъ': 40,
 'ы': 41,
 'ь': 42,
 'э': 43,
 'ю': 44,
 'я': 45,
 'ё': 46,
 'ү': 47,
 'ө': 48}
```

Cleaning up a dataset is a back-and-forth process that needs to be done with care.

> Looking at the separate letters in the training and test datasets, and after discussing them with a native speaker of the target language (thanks [Mishig](https://github.com/mishig25)  for taking a look), we can see Latin characters that we are going to remove for two reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking at the separate letters in the training and test datasets, we see a mix of Latin and Mongolian Cyrillic characters. After discussing with a native speaker of the target language (thanks [Mishig](https://github.com/mishig25) for taking a look), we'll remove the Latin characters for two reasons:
```

> 1. the CTC algorithm benefits from reduced vocabulary size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. the CTC algorithm benefits from reduced vocabulary size, so it is recommended to remove redundant characters
```

```python
def remove_latin_characters(batch):
    batch["sentence"] = re.sub(r'[a-z]+', '', batch["sentence"])
    return batch

# remove latin characters
common_voice_train = common_voice_train.map(remove_latin_characters)
common_voice_test = common_voice_test.map(remove_latin_characters)

# extract unique characters again
vocab_train = common_voice_train.map(extract_all_chars, batched=True, batch_size=-1, keep_in_memory=True, remove_columns=common_voice_train.column_names)
vocab_test = common_voice_test.map(extract_all_chars, batched=True, batch_size=-1, keep_in_memory=True, remove_columns=common_voice_test.column_names)
vocab_list = list(set(vocab_train["vocab"][0]) | set(vocab_test["vocab"][0]))

vocab_dict = {v: k for k, v in enumerate(sorted(vocab_list))}
vocab_dict
```

```bash
{' ': 0,
 'а': 1,
 'б': 2,
 'в': 3,
 'г': 4,
 'д': 5,
 'е': 6,
 'ж': 7,
 'з': 8,
 'и': 9,
 'й': 10,
 'к': 11,
 'л': 12,
 'м': 13,
 'н': 14,
 'о': 15,
 'п': 16,
 'р': 17,
 'с': 18,
 'т': 19,
 'у': 20,
 'ф': 21,
 'х': 22,
 'ц': 23,
 'ч': 24,
 'ш': 25,
 'ъ': 26,
 'ы': 27,
 'ь': 28,
 'э': 29,
 'ю': 30,
 'я': 31,
 'ё': 32,
 'ү': 33,
 'ө': 34}
```

> Cool, we see that all letters of the alphabet occur in the dataset (which is not really surprising) and we also extracted the special character `" "`. Note that we did not exclude this special character because:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cool, we see that all letters of the Mongolian alphabet occur in the dataset (which is not really surprising) and we also extracted the special character `" "`. Note that we did not exclude this special character because:
```

> 
> The model has to learn to predict when a word is finished or else the model prediction would always be a sequence of chars which would make it impossible to separate words from each other.

Reviewer: I don't think these needs to be on its own separate line
```suggestion
the model has to learn to predict when a word is finished or else the model prediction would always be a sequence of chars which would make it impossible to separate words from each other.
```

> One should always keep in mind that pre-processing is a very important step before training your model. E.g., we don't want our model to differentiate between `a` and `A` just because we forgot to normalize the data. The difference between `a` and `A` does not depend on the "sound" of the letter at all, but more on grammatical rules - *e.g.* use a capitalized letter at the beginning of the sentence. So it is sensible to remove the difference between capitalized and non-capitalized letters so that the model has an easier time learning to transcribe speech.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One should always keep in mind that pre-processing is a very important step before training your model. E.g., we don't want our model to differentiate between `a` and `A` just because we forgot to normalize the data. The difference between `a` and `A` does not depend on the "sound" of the letter at all, but more on grammatical rules - *e.g.* use a capitalized letter at the beginning of the sentence. So it is sensible to remove the difference between capitalized and non-capitalized letters so that the model has an easier time learning to transcribe speech. You can read more about the effects of pre-processing on the ASR task in the [Audio Transformers Course](https://huggingface.co/learn/audio-course/chapter5/evaluation#normalisation).
```

To make it clearer that `" "` has its own token class, we give it a more visible character `|`. In addition, we also add an "unknown" token so that the model can later deal with characters not encountered in Common Voice's training set.

```python
vocab_dict["|"] = vocab_dict[" "]
del vocab_dict[" "]
```

> Finally, we also add a padding token that corresponds to CTC's "*blank token*".
> 
> 
> The "blank token" is a core component of the CTC algorithm. For more information, please take a look at the "Alignment" section [here](https://distill.pub/2017/ctc/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we also add a padding token that corresponds to CTC's "*blank token*". The "blank token" is a core component of the CTC algorithm. For more information, please take a look at the "Alignment" section of this [blog post](https://distill.pub/2017/ctc/).
```

```python
vocab_dict["[UNK]"] = len(vocab_dict)
vocab_dict["[PAD]"] = len(vocab_dict)
len(vocab_dict)
```

```bash
37
```

Cool, now our vocabulary is complete and consists of 37 tokens, which means that the linear layer that we will add on top of the pretrained W2V-BERT checkpoint will have an output dimension of 37.

Let's now save the vocabulary as a json file.

```python
import json
with open('vocab.json', 'w') as vocab_file:
    json.dump(vocab_dict, vocab_file)
```

In a final step, we use the json file to load the vocabulary into an instance of the `Wav2Vec2CTCTokenizer` class

```python
from transformers import Wav2Vec2CTCTokenizer

tokenizer = Wav2Vec2CTCTokenizer.from_pretrained("./", unk_token="[UNK]", pad_token="[PAD]", word_delimiter_token="|")
```

If one wants to re-use the just created tokenizer with the fine-tuned model of this notebook, it is strongly advised to upload the `tokenizer` to the [🤗 Hub](https://huggingface.co/). Let's call the repo to which we will upload the files
`"w2v-bert-2.0-mongolian-colab-CV16.0"`:

```python
repo_name = "w2v-bert-2.0-mongolian-colab-CV16.0"
```

and upload the tokenizer to the [🤗 Hub](https://huggingface.co/).

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
```

tokenizer.push_to_hub(repo_name)
```

Great, you can see the just created repository under `https://huggingface.co/<your-username>/w2v-bert-2.0-mongolian-colab-CV16.0`

### Create `SeamlessM4TFeatureExtractor`

Speech is a continuous signal and to be treated by computers, it first has to be discretized, which is usually called **sampling**. The sampling rate hereby plays an important role in that it defines how many data points of the speech signal are measured per second. Therefore, sampling with a higher sampling rate results in a better approximation of the *real* speech signal but also necessitates more values per second.

A pretrained checkpoint expects its input data to have been sampled more or less from the same distribution as the data it was trained on. The same speech signals sampled at two different rates have a very different distribution, *e.g.*, doubling the sampling rate results in data points being twice as long. Thus,
before fine-tuning a pretrained checkpoint of an ASR model, it is crucial to verify that the sampling rate of the data that was used to pretrain the model matches the sampling rate of the dataset used to fine-tune the model.

> W2V-BERT was pretrained on audio data, at a sampling rate of 16kHz. Common Voice, in its original form, has a sampling rate of 48kHz, thus we will have to downsample the fine-tuning data to 16kHz in the following.

Reviewer: Let's move the details on sampling/re-sampling from the section on the feature extractor to the section on pre-processing - it's more relevant there

> A `SeamlessM4TFeatureExtractor` object requires the following parameters to be instantiated:

Reviewer: And then in this section I would just write 1-2 sentences on what the `SeamlessM4TFeatureExtractor` does, i.e. 

- takes a raw audio input and prepares it for the model
- does this by mapping the sequence of 1-d amplitude values to a 2-d matrix of log-mel spectrogram values
- the spectrogram encodes the frequency information of the signal as a function of time, from which the model "learns" acoustic features of the audio input

> - `num_mel_bins`: W2V-BERT needs a different speech representation than the traditional 1D raw speech signal, aka the mel-spectrogram. See this [article](https://www.izotope.com/en/learn/understanding-spectrograms.html) and this [article](https://towardsdatascience.com/learning-from-audio-the-mel-scale-mel-spectrograms-and-mel-frequency-cepstral-coefficients-f5752b6324a8) for more explanations.

Reviewer: The audio transformers course also has a good section on the spectrogram: https://huggingface.co/learn/audio-course/chapter1/audio_data#the-frequency-spectrum

- `sampling_rate`: The sampling rate at which the model is trained on.
- `padding_value`: For batched inference, shorter inputs need to be padded with a specific value

```python
from transformers import SeamlessM4TFeatureExtractor

> feature_extractor = SeamlessM4TFeatureExtractor(feature_size=80, num_mel_bins=80, sampling_rate=16000, padding_value=0.0)

Reviewer: Perhaps easier to load this from pre-trained (rather than initialising)? Since we are loading the checkpoint from pre-trained already and want to promote loading from pre-trained as many components as possible?

This then tells the user we load two components from the pre-trained checkpoint:
1. Feature Extractor
2. Model weights

And only have to initialise:
1. Tokenizer

```python
common_voice_train[0]["path"]
```

```bash
/root/.cache/huggingface/datasets/downloads/extracted/276aa682ce2b6a24934bc401b1f30e004c3fb178dd41d6295b273329f592844a/mn_train_0/common_voice_mn_18578097.mp3
```

W2V-BERT expects the input in the format of a 1-dimensional array of 16 kHz. This means that the audio file has to be loaded and resampled.

Thankfully, `datasets` does this automatically by calling the other column `audio`. Let try it out.

```python
common_voice_train[0]["audio"]
```

```bash
{'path': '/root/.cache/huggingface/datasets/downloads/extracted/276aa682ce2b6a24934bc401b1f30e004c3fb178dd41d6295b273329f592844a/mn_train_0/common_voice_mn_18578097.mp3',
 'array': array([ 0.00000000e+00, -1.64773251e-14,  1.81765166e-13, ...,
        -3.23167333e-05,  2.20304846e-05,  3.26883201e-05]),
 'sampling_rate': 48000}
```

Great, we can see that the audio file has automatically been loaded. This is thanks to the new [`"Audio"` feature](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/package_reference/main_classes.html?highlight=audio#datasets.Audio) introduced in `datasets == 4.13.3`, which loads and resamples audio files on-the-fly upon calling.

> In the example above we can see that the audio data is loaded with a sampling rate of 48kHz whereas 16kHz are expected by the model. We can set the audio feature to the correct sampling rate by making use of [`cast_column`](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/package_reference/main_classes.html?highlight=cast_column#datasets.DatasetDict.cast_column):

Reviewer: Information on sampling rate feels more relevant here than above!

rand_int = random.randint(0, len(common_voice_train)-1)

print(common_voice_train[rand_int]["sentence"])
ipd.Audio(data=common_voice_train[rand_int]["audio"]["array"], autoplay=True, rate=16000)
```

<audio controls> 
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/fine-tune-w2v2-bert/mongolian_sample.wav" type="audio/wav"> 
Your browser does not support the audio element. 
</audio> 

It seems like the data is now correctly loaded and resampled.

It can be heard, that the speakers change along with their speaking rate, accent, and background environment, etc. Overall, the recordings sound acceptably clear though, which is to be expected from a crowd-sourced read speech corpus.

Let's do a final check that the data is correctly prepared, by printing the shape of the speech input, its transcription, and the corresponding sampling rate.

```python
rand_int = random.randint(0, len(common_voice_train)-1)

print("Target text:", common_voice_train[rand_int]["sentence"])
print("Input array shape:", common_voice_train[rand_int]["audio"]["array"].shape)
print("Sampling rate:", common_voice_train[rand_int]["audio"]["sampling_rate"])
```

> 

Reviewer: Feel free to include the print output here (such that the blog post reader can see the results)

Third, we encode the transcriptions to label ids.

```python
def prepare_dataset(batch):
    audio = batch["audio"]
    batch["input_features"] = processor(audio["array"], sampling_rate=audio["sampling_rate"]).input_features[0]
    batch["input_length"] = len(batch["input_features"])

    batch["labels"] = processor(text=batch["sentence"]).input_ids
    return batch
```

Let's apply the data preparation function to all examples.

```python
common_voice_train = common_voice_train.map(prepare_dataset, remove_columns=common_voice_train.column_names)
common_voice_test = common_voice_test.map(prepare_dataset, remove_columns=common_voice_test.column_names)
```

Note**: `datasets` automatically takes care of audio loading and resampling. If you wish to implement your own costumized data loading/sampling, feel free to just make use of the `"path"` column instead and disregard the `"audio"` column.

Awesome, now we are ready to start training!

## Training

> The data is processed so that we are ready to start setting up the training pipeline. We will make use of 🤗's [Trainer](https://huggingface.co/transformers/master/main_classes/trainer.html?highlight=trainer) for which we essentially need to do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data is processed so that we are ready to start setting up the training pipeline. We will make use of 🤗 Transformer's [Trainer](https://huggingface.co/transformers/master/main_classes/trainer.html?highlight=trainer) class, for which we essentially need to do the following:
```

- Define the training configuration.

After having fine-tuned the model, we will correctly evaluate it on the test data and verify that it has indeed learned to correctly transcribe speech.

### Set-up Trainer

Let's start by defining the data collator. The code for the data collator was copied from [this example](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/7e61d56a45c19284cfda0cee8995fb552f6b1f4e/examples/pytorch/speech-recognition/run_speech_recognition_ctc.py#L219).

Without going into too many details, in contrast to the common data collators, this data collator treats the `input_features` and `labels` differently and thus applies to separate padding functions on them. This is necessary because in speech input and output are of different modalities meaning that they should not be treated by the same padding function.
Analogous to the common data collators, the padding tokens in the labels with `-100` so that those tokens are **not** taken into account when computing the loss.

```python
import torch

from dataclasses import dataclass, field
from typing import Any, Dict, List, Optional, Union

@dataclass
class DataCollatorCTCWithPadding:

>     """
>     Data collator that will dynamically pad the inputs received.
>     Args:
>         processor (:class:`~transformers.Wav2Vec2BertProcessor`)
>             The processor used for proccessing the data.
>         padding (:obj:`bool`, :obj:`str` or :class:`~transformers.tokenization_utils_base.PaddingStrategy`, `optional`, defaults to :obj:`True`):
>             Select a strategy to pad the returned sequences (according to the model's padding side and padding index)
>             among:
>             * :obj:`True` or :obj:`'longest'`: Pad to the longest sequence in the batch (or no padding if only a single
>               sequence if provided).
>             * :obj:`'max_length'`: Pad to a maximum length specified with the argument :obj:`max_length` or to the
>               maximum acceptable input length for the model if that argument is not provided.
>             * :obj:`False` or :obj:`'do_not_pad'` (default): No padding (i.e., can output a batch with sequences of
>               different lengths).
>     """

Reviewer: As a rule of thumb, there's no need for docstrings in a blog post - the text should cover everything you want to describe to the reader
```suggestion
```

```python
wer_metric = load_metric("wer")
```

The model will return a sequence of logit vectors:
$\mathbf{y}_1, \ldots, \mathbf{y}_m$ with $\mathbf{y}_1 = f_{\theta}(x_1, \ldots, x_n)[0]$ and $n >> m$.

A logit vector $\mathbf{y}_1$ contains the log-odds for each word in the vocabulary we defined earlier, thus $\text{len}(\mathbf{y}_i) =$ `config.vocab_size`. We are interested in the most likely prediction of the model and thus take the `argmax(...)` of the logits. Also, we transform the encoded labels back to the original string by replacing `-100` with the `pad_token_id` and decoding the ids while making sure that consecutive tokens are **not** grouped to the same token in CTC style \\( {}^1 \\).

```python
def compute_metrics(pred):
    pred_logits = pred.predictions
    pred_ids = np.argmax(pred_logits, axis=-1)

    pred.label_ids[pred.label_ids == -100] = processor.tokenizer.pad_token_id

    pred_str = processor.batch_decode(pred_ids)
    # we do not want to group tokens when computing the metrics
    label_str = processor.batch_decode(pred.label_ids, group_tokens=False)

    wer = wer_metric.compute(predictions=pred_str, references=label_str)

    return {"wer": wer}
```

> Now, we can load the pretrained checkpoint of [Wav2Vec2-XLS-R-300M](https://huggingface.co/facebook/wav2vec2-xls-r-300m). The tokenizer's `pad_token_id` must be to define the model's `pad_token_id` or in the case of `Wav2Vec2BertForCTC` also CTC's *blank token* \\( {}^2 \\). To save GPU memory, we enable PyTorch's [gradient checkpointing](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/checkpoint.html) and also set the loss reduction to "*mean*".

Reviewer: Model name needs to be updated here

```python
from transformers import Wav2Vec2BertForCTC

model = Wav2Vec2BertForCTC.from_pretrained(
    "ylacombe/w2v-bert-2.0",
    attention_dropout=0.0,
    hidden_dropout=0.0,
    feat_proj_dropout=0.0,
    mask_time_prob=0.0,
    layerdrop=0.0,
    ctc_loss_reduction="mean",
    add_adapter=True,
    pad_token_id=processor.tokenizer.pad_token_id,
    vocab_size=len(processor.tokenizer),
)
```

In a final step, we define all parameters related to training.
To give more explanation on some of the parameters:
- `group_by_length` makes training more efficient by grouping training samples of similar input length into one batch. This can significantly speed up training time by heavily reducing the overall number of useless padding tokens that are passed through the model
- `learning_rate` was heuristically tuned until fine-tuning has become stable. Note that those parameters strongly depend on the Common Voice dataset and might be suboptimal for other speech datasets.

For more explanations on other parameters, one can take a look at the [docs](https://huggingface.co/transformers/master/main_classes/trainer.html?highlight=trainer#trainingarguments).

> During training, a checkpoint will be uploaded asynchronously to the hub every 800 training steps. It allows you to also play around with the demo widget even while your model is still training.

Reviewer: We say:
> a checkpoint will be uploaded asynchronously to the hub every 800 training steps

But then set `save_steps=200` below?

**Note**: If one does not want to upload the model checkpoints to the hub, simply set `push_to_hub=False`.

```python
from transformers import TrainingArguments

training_args = TrainingArguments(
  output_dir=repo_name,
  group_by_length=True,
  per_device_train_batch_size=16,
  gradient_accumulation_steps=2,
  evaluation_strategy="steps",
  num_train_epochs=10,
  gradient_checkpointing=True,
  fp16=True,
  save_steps=200,

>   eval_steps=100,

Reviewer: Eval steps and save steps can be much higher - there's no need to evaluate so frequently. I would set this to 500 or so

### Training

Training will take multiple hours depending on the GPU allocated to this notebook. While the trained model yields somewhat satisfying results on *Common Voice*'s test data of Mongolian, it is by no means an optimally fine-tuned model. The purpose of this notebook is just to demonstrate how to fine-tune W2V-BERT on an ASR dataset.

```python
trainer.train()
```

| Step | Training Loss | Validation Loss | Wer      |
|:-------------:|:----:|:---------------:|:------:|
| 100  | 3.751600      | 2.404063        | 1.008919 |
| 200  | 1.018500      | 0.764176        | 0.615347 |
| 300  | 0.536600      | 0.651845        | 0.532848 |
| 400  | 0.415300      | 0.611600        | 0.481075 |
| 500  | 0.353000      | 0.635747        | 0.480585 |
| 600  | 0.287600      | 0.621341        | 0.443387 |
| 700  | 0.238900      | 0.510328        | 0.424298 |
| 800  | 0.173500      | 0.507904        | 0.375299 |
| 900  | 0.141900      | 0.526440        | 0.363824 |
| 1000 | 0.103100      | 0.545374        | 0.346585 |
| 1100 | 0.074300      | 0.528603        | 0.333696 |
| 1200 | 0.054000      | 0.503239        | 0.325103 |

> The training loss and validation WER go down nicely.

Reviewer: TODO: comparison to Whisper pre-trained and fine-tuned (I'm running the latter now)
```suggestion
The training loss and validation WER go down nicely. The model reaches a final WER of..., which shows...
```

You can now upload the result of the training to the 🤗 Hub, just execute this instruction:

```python
trainer.push_to_hub()
```

You can now share this model with all your friends, family, favorite pets: they can all load it with the identifier "your-username/the-name-you-picked" so for instance:

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCTC, Wav2Vec2BertProcessor

model = AutoModelForCTC.from_pretrained("ylacombe/w2v-bert-2.0-mongolian-colab-CV16.0")
processor = Wav2Vec2BertProcessor.from_pretrained("ylacombe/w2v-bert-2.0-mongolian-colab-CV16.0")
```

For more examples of how W2V-BERT can be fine-tuned, please take a look at the [official speech recognition examples](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/master/examples/pytorch/speech-recognition#examples).

### Evaluation

As a final check, let's load the model and verify that it indeed has learned to transcribe Mongolian speech.

Let's first load the pretrained checkpoint.

```python
model = Wav2Vec2BertForCTC.from_pretrained(repo_name).to("cuda")
processor = Wav2Vec2BertProcessor.from_pretrained(repo_name)
```

Let's process the audio, run a forward pass and predict the ids.

```python

> input_dict = common_voice_test[0]
> 
> logits = model(torch.tensor(input_dict["input_features"]).to("cuda").unsqueeze(0)).logits
> 
> pred_ids = torch.argmax(logits, dim=-1)[0]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sample = common_voice_test[0]
input_features = torch.tensor(sample["input_features"]).to("cuda").unsqueeze(0)

with torch.no_grad():
    logits = model(input_features).logits

pred_ids = torch.argmax(logits, dim=-1)[0]
```

```

Finally, we can decode the example from the predicted tokens and compare it to the reference transcription:

```python
print(processor.decode(pred_ids))
print(processor.decode(input_dict["labels"]).lower())
```

```bash
эрчүүдийн ганцаардлыг эмэхтэйчүүд ойлгох нь ховор юм
эрчүдийн ганцардлыг эмэгтэйчүд ойлгох нь ховор юм
```

> Alright! The transcription can definitely be recognized from our prediction, but it is not perfect yet. Training the model a bit longer, spending more time on the data preprocessing, and especially using a language model for decoding would certainly improve the model's overall performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alright! The transcription can definitely be recognized from our prediction, but it is not perfect yet. Training the model a bit longer, spending more time on the data preprocessing, and especially using a [language model](https://huggingface.co/blog/wav2vec2-with-ngram) for decoding would certainly improve the model's overall performance.
```

### Datasets-related tips

CTC ASR is typically done with lower-case, un-punctuated transcriptions. This simplifies the CTC task since the model is considered as "acoustic only", meaning that it makes prediction largely based on the phonetics sounds of the audio, rather than any language modelling context of the spoken sentence.

Very low-frequency characters can significantly affect loss during learning by causing loss spikes via erroneous targets. By default, the CTC tokenizer created in this blog post would add them to the vocabulary even if their frequency is negligible compared to more frequent characters. We can treat these characters as "errors" in the dataset annotation, so that they can be removed from the vocabulary, and simply classified as `"[UNK]"` during training.

It is therefore absolutely necessary to recheck the tokenizer vocabulary and remove all low-frequency characters, in much the same way as we removed Latin characters when creating the tokenizer.

Note that the Common Voice dataset is particularly prone to such "wrong" characters, for example characters from other languages (阪).

### Training-related tips

> **Average duration seen by each CTC token:** According to the advice of my colleagues, the ideal ratio of duration seen per CTC token is 10 to 35 ms. In other words, to be able to learn and predict correctly, the duration of the acoustic information a CTC token needs to see should be neither too low nor too high. In fact, it should more or less correspond to a fraction of the time it takes us humans to pronounce a phoneme. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Average duration seen by each CTC token:** through experimentation, we found the ideal ratio of duration seen per CTC token is 10 to 35 ms. In other words, to be able to learn and predict correctly, the duration of the acoustic information a CTC token needs to see should be neither too low nor too high. In fact, it should more or less correspond to a fraction of the time it takes us humans to pronounce a phoneme. 
```

> This is something that came to light when I started refining this new W2V2-Bert model (you can find the logs of one of my experiments [here](https://wandb.ai/ylacombe/huggingface/runs/4y8pd2gq)). I quickly noticed that the loss curve of my model was initially going nicely downwards, as expected, but at some point it started to explode.
> 
> After discussing this with my colleagues, I realized that I had been using a [basic checkpoint with no architecture changes](https://huggingface.co/facebook/w2v-bert-2.0), and that each CTC token was seeing a piece of the signal for 30 to 60 ms. Adding an adapter layer was enough to reduce the signal chunk sampling to the desired duration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is something that came to light when I started refining this new W2V2-Bert model (you can find the logs of one of my experiments [here](https://wandb.ai/ylacombe/huggingface/runs/4y8pd2gq)). I quickly noticed that the loss curve of my model was initially going nicely downwards, as expected, but at some point it started to explode. I realized that I had been using a [basic checkpoint with no architecture changes](https://huggingface.co/facebook/w2v-bert-2.0), and that each CTC token was seeing a piece of the signal for 30 to 60 ms. Adding an convolutional [adapter layer](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/wav2vec2-bert#transformers.Wav2Vec2BertConfig.add_adapter) to sub-sample the encoder hidden-states along the time dimension was enough to reduce the signal chunk sampling to the desired duration.
```

> **Under-training:** After showing this blog post [training run](https://huggingface.co/hf-audio/w2v-bert-2.0-mongolian-colab-CV16.0#training-results) and another [training attempt](https://wandb.ai/ylacombe/huggingface/runs/nasaux7f?workspace=user-ylacombe) on English Common Voice (about 2.5k validated hours) to my colleagues, they pointed out that the model was severely under-trained, something that could have been spotted by looking at the loss curve, which looks like it was stopped in the middle of a steep descent. This pointed out other issues as well, notably the loss curve not being smooth enough, a sign of wrong hyper-parameters settings. 

Reviewer: I would just show this training run as an example of one that is under-trained, and then give the following tips to remedy this
